There is little to no formal requirements for how you should write your thesis. That said there are some common
practices that you should follow. For example, since you are a computer science student we very much expect that you
write your thesis in LaTex. A good starting template for your thesis is this
[DTU thesis template](https://www.overleaf.com/latex/templates/dtu-thesis-template/dyxwwkhmzrbx).

## Structure

Your thesis should follow common academic structure overall which includes but not limited to:

* Introduction

* Background

* Methodology

* Results

* Discussion

* Conclusion

That said, the most important thing is that you tell a good coherent story that is easy to read. Therefore, if this
means that you need to deviate from the common structure, then do so.

## Writing style

## Figures

> An image is worth a thousand words

This old saying is still very much true.



Additionally, if you can make sure that figures are generated by code! Why is this? because you are most likely going to
reproduce the figures multiple times. If you have a script that generates the figures, then you can easily reproduce the
figures.

Save the figures as vector-graphics (pdf, svg, eps) if possible. This will make sure that the figures are of high
quality and can be scaled to any size without loss of quality.

## Generative AI

> DTU is embracing the use of AI in teaching

That is the overall statement regarding the use of AI at DTU. Therefore, you are in principal free to use generative AI
in your thesis as much as possible. However, you should be *transparent* about it. This means that you should disclose
in the thesis that you have used generative AI. DTU follows the Vancouver Convention for citing AI-generated text.

!!! note " "

    At submission, the journal should require authors to disclose whether they used Artificial Intelligence (AI)–
    assisted technologies (such as Large Language Models [LLMs], chatbots, or image creators) in the production of
    submitted work. Authors who use such technology should describe, in both the cover letter and the submitted work in
    the appropriate section if applicable, how they used it. For example, if AI was used for writing assistance,
    describe this in the acknowledgment section (see Section II.A.3). If AI was used for data collection, analysis,
    or figure generation, authors should describe this use in the methods (see Section IV.A.3.d). Chatbots (such as
    ChatGPT) should not be listed as authors because they cannot be responsible for the accuracy, integrity, and
    originality of the work, and these responsibilities are required for authorship (see Section II.A.1). Therefore,
    humans are responsible for any submitted material that included the use of AI-assisted technologies. Authors
    should carefully review and edit the result because AI can generate authoritative-sounding output that can
    be incorrect, incomplete, or biased. Authors should not list AI and AI-assisted technologies as an author or
    co-author, nor cite AI as an author. Authors should be able to assert that there is no plagiarism in their paper,
    including in text and images produced by the AI. Humans must ensure there is appropriate attribution of all quoted
    material, including full citations.

    > From the [ICMJE guidelines](http://www.icmje.org/icmje-recommendations.pdf)

Thus, in the appendix of your thesis you should add a section where you describe how you have used generative AI in your
thesis. The most up-to-date guidelines regarding DTU rules regarding the use of generative AI can be found
[here](https://ai.dtu.dk/)
